Development comparisons (#271)
AdobeDocs/commerce-extensibility: src/pages/app-development/index.md

Reviewer: "Each approach has its own set of advantages and use cases, and understanding them is crucial for developers and businesses looking to maximize their platform's potential" - Can we change this line to say something like "Adobe recommends adopting out-of-process extensibility where possible due to its ease of maintenance."

---
title: Extensibility in Adobe Commerce
description: Learn about in-process, out-of-process, and hybrid extensibility
contributor_name: Comwrap Reply GmbH
contributor_link: https://www.comwrap.com
keywords:
  - App Builder
  - Extensibility
---

# Extensibility in Adobe Commerce

> Adobe Commerce is known for its flexibility and extensibility, allowing businesses to adapt their e-commerce platforms to their unique needs. With the evolving demands of e-commerce, Adobe Commerce offers various methods for extending its capabilities. These methods can be broadly categorized into **in-process, out-of-process, and hybrid** extensibility. Each approach has its own set of advantages and use cases, and understanding them is crucial for developers and businesses looking to maximize their platform's potential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adobe Commerce is known for its flexibility and extensibility, allowing businesses to adapt their e-commerce platforms to their unique needs. With the evolving demands of e-commerce, Adobe Commerce offers various methods for extending its capabilities. These methods can be broadly categorized into **in-process, out-of-process, and hybrid** extensibility. Adobe recommends using the out-of-process extensibility method where possible due to its ease of maintenance.
```

* **Modify product display logic** - In-process adjustments to product display logic enable direct manipulation of the core application's data structures and functions, allowing for real-time updates to how products are presented, which can include adding of new custom attributes or PageBuilder sections.

## Out-of-process extensibility

With out-of-process extensibility, custom code and extensions run in separate processes, often on different servers or services. This approach is increasingly popular with the rise of microservices and serverless architectures.

The advantages of this approach include:

* **Isolation** - Custom code runs independently of the core application, reducing the risk of crashing or slowing down the main site.
* **Scalability** - Out-of-process services can scale independently, allowing for better resource management and scalability.
* **Technology agnostic** - Developers can use different programming languages or frameworks for their extensions, providing greater flexibility.

> However, setting up and managing out-of-process extensions can be more complex, requiring additional infrastructure and communication protocols. For example, you might have additional database requirements, Elasticsearch set up, etc.

Reviewer: Not sure why we have this line here since we provide the infrastructure (App Builder / API Mesh) to host the out of process extensions, Can we remove this and instead add a line something like "When choosing this out of process extensibility, Adobe provides developers with serverless runtime to host their apps reducing the overhead for developers"
